---
layout: page
rss_ignore: true
title: About
menu:
  main:
    weight: 90
---

We all rely on open source software every day, whether we know it or not. Many of these projects are maintained as
passion projects by only a few core maintainers. Because most people don't know just how much of their life depends on
these critical pieces of software, their efforts are not richly rewarded. In fact, the only time most people become
aware of these projects is when they break, at which point the maintainers are excoriated for bugs, bad security
practices, etc.

This dynamic creates a dangerous sustainability crisis in the open source ecosystem. Consider the OpenSSL cryptography
library, which powers HTTPS connections across the internet. In 2014, the [Heartbleed][Heartbleed] vulnerability exposed
just how precarious our digital infrastructure had become - this critical piece of software, used by millions of servers
worldwide, was maintained by a tiny team operating on a shoestring budget. Similar stories abound: the developer of core
Node.js packages like 'colors' and 'faker' deliberately broke their own libraries in protest of large companies
profiting from their free work. The [Log4Shell][Log4Shell] vulnerability in the Log4j library of 2021 affected billions
of devices, yet the library was maintained by a handful of volunteers. More recently, a near-catastrophe in the form of
a backdoor inserted into [xz utils][xz utils] was only narrowly avoided.

The implications extend far beyond the tech industry. Modern healthcare systems rely on open source software for
everything from MRI machines to patient records. Financial markets depend on open source tools for trading and risk
analysis. Smart homes, cars, and cities increasingly run on software with open source components. When these critical
systems fail, the consequences can be severe - yet we consistently underinvest in their maintenance.

The problem is compounded by the "tragedy of the commons" in digital form. Large companies build their products atop
open source foundations, generating billions in revenue while contributing relatively little back to the ecosystem.
Individual users benefit from free, high-quality software without considering the human cost of its creation and
maintenance. Meanwhile, maintainers face mounting pressure from security requirements, compatibility issues, and user
demands, often while working full-time jobs to support themselves.

The cost of inaction is clear: more security breaches, more system failures, and more burned-out maintainers walking
away from critical projects. Every time we refresh a webpage, send a message, or make a purchase, we're benefiting from
the largely uncompensated work of open source maintainers. It's time we treated core infrastructure with the same
seriousness we apply to bridges, power grids, and water systems.

Supporting open source isn't just about fairness to maintainers - it's about ensuring the long-term stability and
security of the digital systems we all depend on. The next time you use a piece of open source software, consider: what
would happen if it disappeared tomorrow? And more importantly, what can you do today to prevent that from happening?

[Heartbleed]: https://heartbleed.com/
[Log4Shell]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Log4Shell
[xz utils]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/XZ_Utils_backdoor
